Here God's word from Genesis chapter 49, starting verse 13.
Zebulun shall dwell at the shore of the sea.
He shall become a haven for ships, and his borders shall be at Sidon.
Issachar is a strong donkey, crouching between the sheepfold.
He saw that a resting place was good.
and that the land was pleasant.
So he bowed his shoulder to bear and became a servant that forced labor.
Dan shall judge his people as one of the tribes of Israel.
Dan shall be a serpent in the way of viper by the path that bites the horse's heels so that his rider falls backward.
I wait for your salvation, O Lord.
Raiders shall raid Gad, but he shall raid at their heels.
Asher's food shall be rich
And he showed yield, royal delicacies.
Neftelli is a dough let loose that bears beautiful fawns.
Joseph is a fruitful bow, a fruitful bow by a spring.
His branches run over the wall.
The archers bitterly attack him, shot at him, and harassed him severely.
His bow remained unmoved.
His arms were made agile by the hand of the mighty one of Jacob.
From there is the shepherd, the stone of Israel.
For God of your Father, who will help you by the Almighty who will bless you with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that crouches beneath, blessings of the breasts and of the womb, and blessings of your Father are mighty beyond the blessing of my parents up to the bounties of the everlasting hills.
May they be on the head of Joseph.
on the brow of him who was set apart from his brothers.
Benjamin is a ravenous wolf in the morning devouring the prey and at the evening dividing the spoil.
The grass withers and the flowers fade, but the word of our God will stand forever, and many may be seated.
Pray with me.
Holy Father, we give you thanks for your word.
Your Word, which is life itself.
I pray that as we meditate on your Word, that we would see your goodness, your beauty, your truth, and that you would stir our hearts evermore that follow you with all vigor and passion and love.
That you'd work in and through your Word this morning, amen.
There's a saying that there's two things that are certain in life
death and taxes.
And I want to add one other thing to that that's probably certain is that in life you will carry many wounds, right?
People will wound you in their life.
And there's nothing quite like being wounded, not just by an enemy, you expect to be wounded by an enemy, but there's nothing quite like being wounded by someone that you consider a friend, even a close friend.
And even further, of the wounds that a friend can give you,
There's nothing quite like the wounds that a church can give you.
Right?
I mean, it's because I think we get surprised by this because the church is supposed to be better than that.
It's not supposed to be a place that wounds you.
It's supposed to be a place that heals you.
So how does this happen?
It should be better.
We expect better.
We expect
Many ways it's actually true of this community.
This community is unique in this church.
Many of the people sitting in the pews with you are people you would never talk to if it wasn't for the church.
Whether it's income, whether it's job, whether it's just your personal interest.
You have no reason to be friends with anybody in this room except for that you're gathered around Jesus.
And there's something beautiful that could happen here where we experience forgiveness, where we extend forgiveness and kindness.
When people are in need, we make meals and we draw near and we pray for each other.
But perhaps it's precisely because of this profound potential that you have in this kind of community, that when you experience the opposite, it hurts all the more.
It hurts deeply.
It wounds, it builds distrust, right?
When the people that preach grace are the ones that gossip about you, when the people that sing about the great love and mercy of Christ have a deep coldness to you, when the people who speak about humility
have pride.
It hurts.
And what's more is it's not just when the regular people out there do it to each other, but it's when their leaders act this way towards you.
When your pastor acts this way, it's confusing.
It's disorienting.
We're not supposed to, we're supposed to be better than this.
What is wrong with us?
And I think Genesis 49
surprisingly, has much to tell us about this problem.
This problem of the people of God that they aren't who we expect them to be.
You know, in these final words that Jacob, his father, is giving to his children, and right after this moment, he's going to die.
It's his final words, he's giving to them.
He's not just giving them their own personal features, but he's telling them the future of nations, the future of tribe, the future of the
the very people of God that they're going to fulfill the great promises given to Abraham that they're blessed to be this blessing to this world.
I mean, in many ways, this is the first church here.
All right, church, Ecclesia, the gathering of people set apart to the worship of God.
This is the first church.
And you would expect, if you and I were going to write, okay, what are the blessings of this first, like,
real outworking of the church as we know it.
You'd expect it to have like lots of rosy colored language.
Like, oh, bless you, you're gonna be so great.
You're gonna be the best of the people in the land.
But as he tells the future of these people, it's not what we see.
We see they're unimpressive, that they're passive, that they're violent.
And what we realize is that we didn't, you and I did not invent church hurt.
But it's always been a part of God's people, that they're people who hurt people.
And yet, though this is a gathering of the imperfect, God still uses his church's people to build through.
God himself is not surprised that we're a messy group of people, and this is who God has actually always worked with and through.
It's people like us, people like them.
And I think there's two things I want to point out about ourselves from this text, and the nature
But what it means to be the church, the gathering of God's people, and they're these.
Two simple things this morning.
The first is that the church is weak.
The church is weak.
And second, that the church is blessed.
See, some of you thought I was gonna say the church is strong, but no.
The church is blessed.
The church is weak, and the church is blessed.
So first, the church is weak.
Again, this is not what you expect to hear about God's people.
God, the Almighty,
They're everlasting one, the one who sustains all things.
You expect this people to be like that.
But no, I think what you see in here is a description of God's people, not just these brothers, but who they will become and who we become in them in Christ, the fulfillment of all these things.
We find that it's weak.
And remember, these blessings that, if you've missed some of the other sermons going through this blessing chapter, these blessings are not just well wishes towards these sons.
They're prophetic promises.
This is gonna happen to their, you just tone them their future.
These are prophetic.
And again, think if you're like a father, speaking to their sons, even speaking prophetically, like these are some of these are kind of odd that this is what the people of God, the future tribes is what the promise to be like.
They're weak.
And I think there's two aspects of the weakness of these people that are on display in these blessings.
The first is that they're passive.
They're weak in their,
and that they are passive.
Verse 14, it says, it's a car, it's a strong donkey crouching beneath the sheepfolds, and he saw that a resting place was good, and the land was pleasant as he bowed his shoulder to bear, and he became a servant to forced labor.
So what's happened here?
I said this last week, I'll say it again this week.
There's so much imagery here that we can't be certain what every little bit of imagery means.
especially all these relationships to animals that are all over the place.
But this one example that you get of here is a donkey.
And what it tells us is that he's strong.
He's strong as a donkey.
I read this book.
Once I did, you know, one Palm Sunday I preached on the donkey thing.
And someone gave me a book following it on donkeys and I read it.
And it was actually pretty entertaining, but it was about how stubborn they are and that they're immovable objects.
As they have this strength about them, they're humble, but they are strong as an ox.
I guess no strong as a donkey.
This is good as it is going to get, guys.
But they're this image of strength.
So this is Isekar, this strong, immovable object.
And what does he do with his strength?
Well, says he gives it up that they become slaves of this land.
It's kind of interesting.
There's just passive nature to it.
And what happens to Instacar's tribe when they come and they inhabit the land that's been long promised to them, they come upon this land and instead of driving the people out and taking it, these are strong people.
What do they do?
They settle, they compromise.
Instead of claiming their inheritance, they give it up.
They don't use their strength.
They're passive and they actually become slaves to the people in the land.
Why do they shrink?
Doesn't tell us exactly.
Were they afraid of men?
Was it that they were they passive because they're afraid of men?
Were they...passive because they wanted to please the people?
Did they just lack courage?
Whatever it was, they had strength that the promises of God behind them and they gave it up to be slaves.
They're passive people.
And some of you know this weakness.
Some of you have a tendency to be a passive.
And the church in general has had different seasons where we come and go, where we can be passive, where we have a voice.
We have a position to speak, but in order to avoid conflict, we shrink for fear.
And before you know it, we end up enslaving ourselves so that people were supposed to lead.
It's going to happen to us.
In the face of opposition, what we find is the church, God's people, are often passive and weak.
It's the first aspect of weakness.
I think this point out here.
The second aspect of weakness you see here is that they're sinful.
You know, the church is going to be very surprising to you all is not magically free of sin.
We see this, I think, in a couple of different places here in these blessings.
First in Dan, in verse 16 through 17, it says, Dan, so judge his people as one of the tribes of Israel.
Dan should be a serpent in the way of viper by the path that bites the horse's heels so that the rider falls backward.
One animal, one creature, I don't know if they're considered animal, snake people can correct me later.
I'm not a snake person clearly.
But one animal you don't want to get connected to, metaphorically,
is a snake.
We actually know this.
We still, like if someone says, oh, that snake, that's not a compliment.
If someone has called you that, they weren't complimenting you on your good behavior.
No, we're saying that the person's sneaky, right?
It talks about it here, the snake that's lying and striking at heels, evil creatures.
And in Judges 18, it tells the story of the tribe of Dan.
where they're hiding in the bushes and they attack a quiet, unexpecting people and they have this violence to them.
They're predators, they're snake-ish people.
This is not good.
This is the future of God's people that they fill with sinful people.
I mean, another example is this Asher's clan in verse 20.
It says, Asher's food shall be rich and he shall yield royal delicacies.
Asher's clan, they became very rich.
But what did they do with their wealth when there were people around them in need?
They actually hid from them.
and they ignored them.
They ignored the plight of their brothers.
And in fact, if you just look at the book of Judges, one of the more uncomfortable books in all of scripture, it gives you the picture of what these tribes become.
In a stunning way, there's war, idolatry, murder, or sexual perversion of the highest order.
And you have to say, okay, this isn't like Canaanite doing these things.
Like Nineveh doing these things.
This isn't Babylon and those evil people that worship false gods doing these things.
She's doing these things and judges.
It's these guys.
It's God's chosen people.
The people that have God's laws, the people are supposed to be better than this.
They're the ones that are acting this way.
And you're like these guys?
These are the ones that are supposed to be a light to the nations.
How does this happen?
And although, you know, the church, modern day church, we're not running around
doing the same things specifically that's happening in the book of Judges, but we're not any better.
We can gossip with the best of them.
We still struggle with greed, sexual morality, anger, manipulation.
All still exist here.
We're still a passive people at times.
We still struggle with sin.
We're fearful people.
It's all still here.
And oftentimes, this is exactly what an outsider will point to.
The reason why, listen, the church isn't worth your time.
It's because they're all a bunch of hypocrites.
They think they're better than everybody else.
They say one thing and then they do another.
It's no different in here than out there, they'll say.
What do we do with this?
I think Keller said it like this.
He said, the church is not a museum for saints.
It's a hospital for sinners.
Jesus said it may be better, not baby.
Definitely said it better.
He said, I came for the sick.
I mean, I came for the sick.
I did come for the sick, so I'm feeling a little sick myself.
He came for the sick, not the healthy, right for the needy.
This is why he came.
And this is who he chooses to grab to be his people.
Listen, none of us are here because we deserve to be here, because we pass some sort of righteousness bar of science.
There's a test that you gotta overcome to get into this room, to be worthy of this place.
You're worthy of this place, not because you're impressive, but because you have nothing to offer.
Yes, you still struggle.
But I wish you could see what I'd be like without this place.
Like, I still have many things that need to change about myself.
But I can't imagine who I would be without the restraint of being a part of this community.
That's true for you too.
I think I've said this example before.
I'm gonna say it again, I'm starting to get to that age.
I'm not quite old yet, but I'm not quite young.
If I'm gonna repeat things, you're just gonna have to roll with it, sorry.
But CS Lewis and his collection of essays, God and the Doc, he has this one story where he talks about this old lady and people complain about her like, oh, she's still grumpy.
How could she be a part of that church?
How could she be a Christian being that grumpy person?
And see if Lewis makes this point, we'll imagine how grumpy she would be if she didn't have the church, right?
Like we imagine who we would be if we didn't have each other.
This is what the church does for us.
The miracle is that there's sinners that are brought into this place, into this church, and that God keeps them.
And not only does he keep you here, like God knew exactly what each one of these guys was gonna do, and he called them his own.
He didn't cut him off.
He drew him in.
He knew what we were going to struggle with.
And he still draws us in.
This is what God, he builds with these blocks, with these, with sinners like you, like me.
And he puts us to work.
He builds with us.
He doesn't cut him off.
He binds us to himself and he builds with us.
And there's an aspect of this that's like beautiful that we receive.
Like man, that is pretty cool.
But also it just doesn't make sense to us.
Because what do we value?
How are we going to build?
We're going to build a building.
We're going to look at the finest things that are going to have the most solid foundation.
We're not going to pick a weak concrete to build a foundation for a building, right?
We value strength.
Your experience is a parent with kids in sports.
If your kid's not very good in athletics, no one's going to actually go talk to you.
They don't care about you or your kid if you're not good.
But if your kid's all of a sudden a star in the sport, other parents and other coaches, they'll come and talk to you, right?
Why?
Because I don't care about that kid, if he's not playing, he's on the bench.
But I care about him, all of a sudden, because I want to feel good about myself.
So I want to put myself next to other people that have position, of authority, of influence.
We do this all over the place.
It's part of who we are in the workplace.
It's profound weakness.
He was a passive man who lacked courage and gave his wife away, who had profound sexual immorality in his life.
He was weak, yeah, God chose him and said, listen, through you, through your family, I'm gonna make a nation.
Think about Moses who kills a man and runs off into the desert.
When does God come drawn near to him?
It's actually in his weakest moment when he's by himself.
God draws near to him.
And remember when he goes back to like be God's voice, he's like, hey, I can't, my voice isn't strong enough.
He's a passive man, he's a weak man, yet God still says, okay, I'll give you somebody to speak through and I'll figure this out for you.
There's one more.
I mean, think about David.
Great King David.
God made one of his covenants with.
You know, if you remember the story when he was like going to be picked, it's like, no, not the strong one, not that one, not that one, not that one.
I think you've got another son.
Think about if you heard your dad, I would never say this to you guys.
Think about if you heard your dad saying this about you.
Yeah, he's got that.
I got another son, but he's small.
He's scrawny.
He's pretty lame watching the sheep.
I don't think you want him.
And Sam was like, no, I want him.
This is what God does.
This is what He's always done.
It should not surprise us.
God is not impressed with your strength because your strength is nothing.
He's impressed when you can be honest about the truth of your existence is that you are weak.
You are a needy person.
And it's in weakness that Jesus Himself came.
He who was rich became poor.
Why that you might become rich.
He who was strong, put on the weakness of flesh.
He had hunger.
He had sorrow.
He had pain.
He put himself on the cross.
Why?
To show us that the pathway to blessing is not despite our weakness, but through it.
Or the pathway to being, to fulfilling the promises that God's made to his people, to this world is not your mind's strength and our ability to be impressive and to speak well.
You guys know I'm horrible at speaking.
I always say things backwards and you guys create memes about it and it's really encouraging to me.
Like this is what God does though.
He uses our weakness and in that he builds.
The pathway to blessing is not to spite our weakness but through it.
God does not abandon us in our weakness but he comes and draws near precisely in our weakness.
We're never not weak.
And where weakness is actually not a liability, it's our greatest asset.
And this is a great mystery of the church that Paul sums up perfectly in 2 Corinthians 12.
And my power has been perfect in weakness.
This is what he does.
So yes, we are filled with a weak people.
People who struggle to be passive, people who struggle with our sin, we are hypocrites in that way.
But whenever God actually builds something good through us,
God won't see our, people won't see our strength, but they'll see the might of God that can build through weak people.
And to belong to the church is to recognize our need, not hiding it by embracing it, embracing our weakness, being open about our weaknesses, because it is the pathway to blessing, which is the second thing we see here.
First, we see churches weak,
Second, we see that the church is blessed, and the way to be blessed is to embrace our weakness.
You see this blessing language all throughout this future that he gives to Joseph.
But there's something about this language that, and about all of this, it's, there's always broader than just the one person is speaking to the one person, but these people are representative tribes, and those tribes find the fulfillment actually in the church, and so there's a handful, for biblical interpretation reasons, there's a handful of different ways you could take
a lot of these different things, and you'd be right to do so.
When I'm looking at this blessing to Joseph, I'm gonna take it more in the corporate sense, and how it applies to us, because I think all of these things ultimately apply to us directly.
But you see this in verse 25 to 26, where it says, by the God of your Father, who will help you by the Almighty, who will bless you with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep, that crouches beneath, blessings of the breasts and of the womb,
The blessings of your father are mighty beyond the blessing of my parents.
Up to the bounties of the everlasting hills.
May they be on the head of Joseph and on the brow of him who was set apart from his brothers.
And he gives us this language of blessing is excessive and it kind of piles up over and over.
Blessings with heaven above from the deep that crouches beneath and the blessings of the breast and of the woman.
And if Jacob, as he's looking at his sons, he must see just their flaws, their burdens.
And here we get this pronouncement of abundance.
This over the top of blessings.
If you think about Joseph specifically for a second, he knows his weakness, his life has been martyred pain as he was a slave, he was forgotten false accusations.
But there's this pronouncement of blessing.
What is this blessing ultimately about?
I think ultimately this is about God's presence, right?
The blessing of heaven above, what is heaven?
Heaven is a place where God dwells, it's where His presence is.
To be blessed with, the heaven above is to be blessed with the very presence of God here with you.
Heaven on earth, heaven in our souls.
This Christ spirit lives and dwells within us.
This is this blessing of,
of presence and everything flows from that.
Blessings of the deep that crouches beneath.
Blessings of the breast of the woman, the breast and of the womb.
Wow.
So I told you, I told you I'm weak and I say the wrong things.
I don't ever get that out of the recording.
But what is that about?
It's about fruitfulness, right?
It's about the blessing
But you're going to be fruitful.
You're going to multiply until the children cover the earth.
That's what this is about.
There's this joy.
There's this presence of God.
There's fruitfulness.
It's heaven on earth.
It's all is right in this world.
It's the end of revelations, renewal of all things.
This is what this blessing is.
It's God's presence with his people that despite our troubles, despite our weakness, God is with us.
And it's our weakness that draws him to us and us to him.
And as we're drawn to him,
refill with His presence, the blessing of His presence.
You know, oftentimes when you think of blessing, we tend to think purely in material senses.
This is so much bigger than prosperity, than so much easier than the ease of life.
It's God Himself to creators, the sustainer of all things with you and with me.
It's God with us.
And He always draws near to His people when they learn to embrace their weakness.
This is when He comes to our life.
This is when our blessings or His presence is felt most succinctly, is in our weakness.
It's in the darkness.
Why does that often happen?
It's to remind us that your strength is not what holds you.
It's not your ability to hold on and endure.
It's His in you.
You know, there's that silly
picture that was probably hanging on her walls, maybe it's still hanging on your wall.
I'm sorry, I'm going to make fun of it a little bit.
But you know the footprints of the sand thing, where it's like the guy looks back and you know, they only see one set of footprints because God was carrying them all along.
And it's kind of this goofy image, most of you probably seen it, but there's actually a lot of truth actually in that image, isn't there?
So you don't have to feel bad if it's on your wall.
There's a lot of truth.
It's cheesy, but there's truth that our strength happens
It's not our own strength.
And anytime we have strength, it's because of his working in us and through us.
And those times of hardship in our lives only grow our dependence on his strength.
There's another thing that people use to make fun of Christians, say, you know, Christianity is just a crutch for you.
Absolutely it is.
100%.
And it's a pretty darn good crutch.
It's more than a crutch.
It's the wheelchair.
It's the, I don't know, I'm fully dependent on it for everything.
It 100% is a crutch.
It's actually meant to be.
You always will need it.
The whole point of a crutch is that you're too weak to like carry yourself and that's right.
You are too weak to live this life.
You're not going to be a good enough father.
You're not going to be a good enough husband.
You're not going to be a good enough wife, mother, daughter, son.
You cannot hold these things together.
You will make mistakes.
Today, this afternoon, right now, you're going to make them.
You need something to hold you together and Christ says, come to me and I will bless you.
Because you are weak, because you can't do this yourself, come to me, I'll be your strength.
Lean on me.
I think you get a sense that Jacob is understanding what's happening.
In verse 18, it's this strange verse in the midst of all these blessings, it's like him speaking his own personal prayer to God.
Verse 18, I will wait for your salvation, O Lord.
It's a strange interruption.
I wait, I wait for you to what?
To save your people.
Your people, my children, the nations that will flow, the tribes that will flow from my trust you, I'm gonna wait for you to actually do this work.
What is this about?
I think he knows that the end of his life is he's about to die.
He knows he can't control this anymore.
He's not gonna have any more influence on what his sons do and how they handle life.
He can't control it.
And if there's few things in life that expose your lack of control in this world, then parenting.
Right, parents, you know this, it exposes that you can't control your children.
You can't control the outcomes, you can't control what they do in life, you can't control a whole lot.
You know, years ago, I used to be able to control who they marry, but I think that's frowned upon now.
No more buying a son of goats or something like that for weddings.
But this is what this is about.
This is what this waiting is, exposing this lack of control and to wait
I think is the ultimate acknowledgement of both weakness and blessing.
To wait is to say, I can't do this myself.
I have to wait here.
I can't force myself through this line.
I got to just stay here and I got to be patient and I got to wait because I'm weak.
And it's waiting on the Lord is trusting in the Lord to move, trusting that the blessing of His presence will come to you because He promised it and He never forsakes His promises.
What is the promises most often repeated in Scripture?
Do not fear, right?
For I am with you.
His presence is what he promises as people.
I can wait for it then.
And as we wait for it, salvation comes, blessing comes.
His presence comes.
And not only does the blessing come to you and me, his presence come to me, but we are actually, as we're blessed, then blessing flows out of this place to the end of the world.
We've become a blessing in this moment.
You know, the church as flat as she is, this is the place that the blessings flow to the end of the world.
It's not in the political arena, it's not in the hospitals, it's not in the education systems, it's not any other institution.
Those are great, and I'm for all of them, and we should be involved in all these things.
But the chief institution that rules all of their institutions is the institution of the church.
This is where blessings flow
into the world.
Because what we offer is not ourselves.
But the presence of God has got us present with us in a unique way as we gather.
As his people, as a church, we bring that presence with us when we go out into this world.
This is how it's always been.
This is the truth to Adam and Eve in the garden.
They were blessed to decide to expand his presence in the world, to Abraham, to the disciples, to us.
It's all about expansion of God's presence.
in this world which happens through His people.
Because we are the place that God's presence dwells in the world.
This is what sets you and I apart.
It's not our perfection, but it's the presence of Christ among us.
That is His blessing on us.
This is why even if the church has lost all cultural impact which throughout its life and ebbs and flows, it has all finances.
Even if she has nothing, gathering and catacombs, surviving,
hiding in the back rooms and churches in China, she still and always will be the strongest force on the earth.
What does Jesus say about the church?
I don't think we think about this enough.
The gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
That is not a throwaway line.
That is the line.
And again, he's not speaking about one specific church like St. Andrew's gonna come and go, but the church will never fail.
Hell itself, the thing that anyone that fears anything, you're gonna fear hell, right?
Has nothing and will not prevail.
The church.
It's a powerful statement.
The strongest thing on this earth right now is God's presence and His presence is here through the church.
This is how God dwells on the earth right now and this is how He's expanding His kingdom and His dwelling place on this earth.
You know, it's super in vogue.
I hear it all the time.
I see it on the inner webs
People will say, well, you know, the church is dumb.
You don't really need it.
I went to it for a bit, but it's messy.
I didn't really like it.
The people are weird.
I don't have time.
I'm too busy.
I'm doing this and that.
I'll find God on my own.
When I have brunch with my friends, God's with me there.
Or if I go to the trees, you know, it's God's there.
And, you know, I do agree that it's messy.
It's weird.
Even those communities were weird, guys.
It's okay.
But you can't find God in the trees like you can find him here with his people.
Because he dwells with his gathered people in a unique way.
He always has.
And the church cannot be blessed apart from God with us, and the world cannot be blessed apart from us in the world.
Our witness to the world is not our perfection, but it's our Savior's perfection.
It is in our strength that we
show the world, but it's the strength of Christ.
To be able to admit that, yeah, we are weak, yeah, we have nothing, but Christ does everything.
Come, be a part of this kingdom.
And when does Christ show His strength the most?
It's on the cross.
And the story of Jesus, one of the most amazing things is it's when He's hanging on the cross and one of the centurion soldiers finally recognizes who He is.
Surely He is the Son of Man.
Surely He is the guy He thought He was.
When He's hanging on a cross, dying, that's when He recognized Him.
It's not an accident.
Jesus defeated death by putting himself underneath it.
As he breaks free from those chains of death and rises to new life, and he's leading you and I along the same path, death to resurrection, weakness to blessing, death to life.
This is our life.
And what this means for you and me is a couple of things.
First is that you don't need to hide your weakness.
You don't.
Your weakness is your strength.
Your weakness is the thing that qualifies you to receive the gospel.
Don't hide your weakness.
Don't be embarrassed.
It's only embracing our weakness that Christ's power is made perfect in us, because it's made perfect in our weakness, not running from it.
The second thing is we need to double in down on our commitment to the things that are lasting, to being a part of this, people of God, it is hard.
You will get wounded.
It is messy.
But not only will you get wounded, you're going to actually do some of the wounding.
It's full disclosure.
It'll happen both directions.
This is a two-way street.
And to be part of this community, it creates humility to see that.
This goes both ways.
It doesn't excuse it.
We're not trying to excuse the wounding either direction.
We confess those things.
We repent.
We work those things out.
But it's going to happen.
Expect it.
Expectation is nine-tenths of the law or something.
Clearly, I said that backwards on purpose, guys, just, you know, I do know sometimes when I do that.
But this is for us to embrace, to be a part of, to double down the commitment to the things that are lasting, the thing that is a church.
This is who God called us to be.
What sets us apart is not our strength, but the presence of God who is the strength in us and among us.
And we learn and grow to be a people who boast in our weakness
May we trust in the ever strong power of God to be a blessing in the world.
Pray with me.
Holy God, we give you thanks for your word.
I pray that you would help us to acknowledge and see our weakness, our inability to pull ourselves up by our own bootstraps, but our need of you.
I pray that you grow our dependence on you
and all things.
And I pray that you would help us to be a light, to be a blessing in this place that you've called us.
We pray this in your holy name.
Amen.